README.md, before:

# Kosuke Template

A modern Next.js 15 template with TypeScript, Clerk authentication, Polar Billing, Vercel Blob, PostgreSQL database, Shadcn UI, Tailwind CSS, and Sentry error monitoring.

## 🚀 Features

- **Next.js 15** with App Router
- **TypeScript** for type safety
- **Clerk Authentication** for user management
- **PostgreSQL** database with Drizzle ORM
- **Shadcn UI** components with Tailwind CSS
- **Polar** billing integration with automated sync
- **Vercel Cron Jobs** for subscription data synchronization
- **Resend** email service with **React Email** templates
- **Profile image uploads** with Vercel Blob
- **Sentry** error monitoring and performance tracking
- **Plausible Analytics** integration with configurable domains
- **Responsive design** with dark/light mode
- **Comprehensive testing** setup with Jest

## 🤖 Interactive Setup Guide (Recommended)

**For the easiest setup experience**, use our interactive CLI setup guide that walks you through everything step-by-step:

```bash
cd cli
virtualenv venv -p 3.12
source venv/bin/activate
pip install -r requirements.txt
python main.py
```

The interactive setup guide will:

- ✅ Guide you through creating all necessary accounts
- ✅ Walk you through configuring each service
- ✅ Generate environment files automatically
- ✅ Save progress so you can resume anytime
- ✅ Set up production deployment on Vercel

📖 **For detailed setup instructions, deployment guides, and DevOps assistance**, see the [CLI Setup Guide](./cli/README.md).

## 🛠 Manual Setup (Alternative)

If you prefer to set up services manually or already have accounts configured:

### Quick Start

1. **Clone and setup:**

   ```bash
   git clone <your-forked-repo>
   cd your-project-name
   cp .env.example .env
   ```

2. **Database:**

   ```bash
   docker compose up -d
   pnpm run db:migrate
   ```

3. **Install and run:**

   ```bash
   pnpm install
   pnpm run dev
   ```

4. **Email development (optional):**
   ```bash
   pnpm run dev:email  # Runs Next.js + React Email preview
   pnpm run email:dev  # React Email preview only
   ```

### Environment Variables

Create a `.env` file with these required variables:

```bash
# Database
POSTGRES_URL=postgres://postgres:postgres@localhost:54321/postgres

# Clerk Authentication
NEXT_PUBLIC_CLERK_PUBLISHABLE_KEY=pk_test_...
CLERK_SECRET_KEY=sk_test_...
CLERK_WEBHOOK_SECRET=whsec_...

# Polar Billing
POLAR_ACCESS_TOKEN=polar_oat_...
POLAR_ENVIRONMENT=sandbox
POLAR_PRO_PRODUCT_ID=prod_...
POLAR_BUSINESS_PRODUCT_ID=prod_...

# Sentry Error Monitoring
NEXT_PUBLIC_SENTRY_DSN=https://your-sentry-dsn-here.ingest.sentry.io/project-id

# Resend Email Service
RESEND_API_KEY=re_your_resend_api_key_here
RESEND_FROM_EMAIL=onboarding@yourdomain.com
RESEND_FROM_NAME=Your App Name
RESEND_REPLY_TO=support@yourdomain.com

# Vercel Blob
BLOB_READ_WRITE_TOKEN=vercel_blob_rw_...

# Subscription Sync Security
CRON_SECRET=your_secure_cron_secret_here

# Plausible Analytics (Optional)
NEXT_PUBLIC_PLAUSIBLE_DOMAIN=your-domain.com
NEXT_PUBLIC_PLAUSIBLE_HOST=https://plausible.io
```

For detailed instructions on obtaining these keys and setting up each service, see the [CLI Setup Guide](./cli/README.md).

## 🧪 Testing

Run tests with:

```bash
pnpm test              # Run all tests
pnpm run test:watch    # Watch mode
pnpm run test:coverage # Coverage report
```

## 🤖 Automated Shadcn/UI Updates

This template includes an automated system to keep your shadcn/ui components up-to-date:

- **🕐 Daily Checks**: Automatically checks for component updates every day at 2 AM UTC
- **📋 Smart PRs**: Creates pull requests only when updates are available
- **🛡️ Safe Updates**: Includes backups, change summaries, and review guidelines
- **🔧 Manual Control**: Run updates manually when needed

```bash
pnpm run shadcn:check    # Check for available updates
pnpm run shadcn:update   # Update components manually
pnpm run shadcn:force    # Force update all components
```

## ⚡ Automated Subscription Sync

This template includes a robust subscription synchronization system powered by Vercel Cron Jobs:

- **🕐 Scheduled Sync**: Automatically syncs subscription data from Polar every 6 hours
- **🔒 Secure Endpoint**: Protected by `CRON_SECRET` token authentication
- **🛡️ Webhook Backup**: Ensures data consistency even if webhooks are missed
- **📊 Monitoring**: Built-in health checks and comprehensive logging

The sync system runs automatically after deployment, requiring no manual intervention. Monitor sync activities through your Vercel Dashboard under the Functions tab.

## 📧 Email Templates with React Email

This template uses **React Email** for building beautiful, responsive email templates with React components and TypeScript.

### Email Development Workflow

```bash
pnpm run email:dev     # Start React Email preview server (port 3001)
pnpm run dev:email     # Run both Next.js and React Email preview
pnpm run email:export  # Export email templates to static HTML
```

### Creating Email Templates

1. **Create your template** in the `emails/` directory:

```tsx
// emails/my-template.tsx
import { BaseLayout } from './base-layout';
import { Section, Text, Button } from '@react-email/components';

export function MyEmailTemplate({ name }: { name: string }) {
  return (
    <BaseLayout preview="Welcome to our service!">
      <Section>
        <Text>Hello {name}!</Text>
        <Button href="https://example.com">Get Started</Button>
      </Section>
    </BaseLayout>
  );
}
```

2. **Send the email** using the updated email service:

```tsx
import { sendEmail } from '@/lib/email';
import { MyEmailTemplate } from '@/emails/my-template';

await sendEmail({
  to: 'user@example.com',
  subject: 'Welcome!',
  react: <MyEmailTemplate name="John" />,
});
```

### Email Preview & Testing

- **Preview**: Visit [http://localhost:3001](http://localhost:3001) when running `pnpm run email:dev`
- **Live Reload**: Template changes are reflected instantly in the preview
- **Responsive**: Test email rendering across different screen sizes
- **Plain Text**: Automatically generates plain text versions

## 📦 Available Scripts

```bash
pnpm run dev           # Start development server
pnpm run dev:email     # Start Next.js + React Email preview
pnpm run build         # Build for production
pnpm run start         # Start production server
pnpm run lint          # Run ESLint
pnpm run format        # Format code with Prettier
pnpm run email:dev     # Start React Email preview server
pnpm run email:export  # Export email templates to HTML
pnpm run db:generate   # Generate database migrations
pnpm run db:migrate    # Run database migrations
pnpm run db:push       # Push schema changes
pnpm run db:studio     # Open Drizzle Studio
pnpm run db:seed       # Seed database
```

## 🚀 Deployment & Production

For complete deployment instructions, production configuration, and DevOps guidance, see the [CLI Setup Guide](./cli/README.md) which covers:

- 🤖 **Interactive Vercel deployment** with automated environment variable setup
- 🏦 **Production Polar billing** configuration
- 🔐 **Production Clerk authentication** setup
- ☁️ **Custom domain configuration**
- 🔒 **Security best practices**
- 📊 **Monitoring and maintenance**

The CLI guide provides step-by-step instructions for both development and production environments.

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the LICENSE file for details.

Commit message:

docs(README.md): update features section to include Clerk authentication with Organizations and multi-tenant SaaS capabilities docs(cli/README.md): enhance description to highlight multi-tenant SaaS features with Clerk Organizations and Teams docs(cli/main.py): clarify setup steps for Clerk authentication and webhooks, emphasizing organization features and role-based access control

README.md, after:

# Kosuke Template

A modern Next.js 15 template with TypeScript, Clerk authentication with Organizations, Polar Billing, Vercel Blob, PostgreSQL database, Shadcn UI, Tailwind CSS, and Sentry error monitoring. Built for multi-tenant SaaS applications.

## 🚀 Features

- **Next.js 15** with App Router
- **TypeScript** for type safety
- **Clerk Authentication** for user management with **Organizations & Teams**
- **PostgreSQL** database with Drizzle ORM
- **Shadcn UI** components with Tailwind CSS
- **Polar** billing integration with automated sync (personal & organization subscriptions)
- **Vercel Cron Jobs** for subscription data synchronization
- **Resend** email service with **React Email** templates
- **Profile image uploads** with Vercel Blob
- **Multi-tenancy** with organization and team management
- **Sentry** error monitoring and performance tracking
- **Plausible Analytics** integration with configurable domains
- **Responsive design** with dark/light mode
- **Comprehensive testing** setup with Jest

## 🤖 Interactive Setup Guide (Recommended)

**For the easiest setup experience**, use our interactive CLI setup guide that walks you through everything step-by-step:

```bash
cd cli
virtualenv venv -p 3.12
source venv/bin/activate
pip install -r requirements.txt
python main.py
```

The interactive setup guide will:

- ✅ Guide you through creating all necessary accounts
- ✅ Walk you through configuring each service
- ✅ Generate environment files automatically
- ✅ Save progress so you can resume anytime
- ✅ Set up production deployment on Vercel

📖 **For detailed setup instructions, deployment guides, and DevOps assistance**, see the [CLI Setup Guide](./cli/README.md).

## 🛠 Manual Setup (Alternative)

If you prefer to set up services manually or already have accounts configured:

### Quick Start

1. **Clone and setup:**

   ```bash
   git clone <your-forked-repo>
   cd your-project-name
   cp .env.example .env
   ```

2. **Database:**

   ```bash
   docker compose up -d
   pnpm run db:migrate
   ```

3. **Install and run:**

   ```bash
   pnpm install
   pnpm run dev
   ```

4. **Email development (optional):**

   ```bash
   pnpm run dev:email  # Runs Next.js + React Email preview
   pnpm run email:dev  # React Email preview only
   ```

### Environment Variables

Create a `.env` file with these required variables:

```bash
# Database
POSTGRES_URL=postgres://postgres:postgres@localhost:54321/postgres

# Clerk Authentication (Organizations enabled)
NEXT_PUBLIC_CLERK_PUBLISHABLE_KEY=pk_test_...
CLERK_SECRET_KEY=sk_test_...
CLERK_WEBHOOK_SECRET=whsec_...

# Polar Billing
POLAR_ACCESS_TOKEN=polar_oat_...
POLAR_ENVIRONMENT=sandbox
POLAR_PRO_PRODUCT_ID=prod_...
POLAR_BUSINESS_PRODUCT_ID=prod_...

# Sentry Error Monitoring
NEXT_PUBLIC_SENTRY_DSN=https://your-sentry-dsn-here.ingest.sentry.io/project-id

# Resend Email Service
RESEND_API_KEY=re_your_resend_api_key_here
RESEND_FROM_EMAIL=onboarding@yourdomain.com
RESEND_FROM_NAME=Your App Name
RESEND_REPLY_TO=support@yourdomain.com

# Vercel Blob
BLOB_READ_WRITE_TOKEN=vercel_blob_rw_...

# Subscription Sync Security
CRON_SECRET=your_secure_cron_secret_here

# Plausible Analytics (Optional)
NEXT_PUBLIC_PLAUSIBLE_DOMAIN=your-domain.com
NEXT_PUBLIC_PLAUSIBLE_HOST=https://plausible.io
```

For detailed instructions on obtaining these keys and setting up each service, see the [CLI Setup Guide](./cli/README.md).

## 🧪 Testing

Run tests with:

```bash
pnpm test              # Run all tests
pnpm run test:watch    # Watch mode
pnpm run test:coverage # Coverage report
```

## 🤖 Automated Shadcn/UI Updates

This template includes an automated system to keep your shadcn/ui components up-to-date:

- **🕐 Daily Checks**: Automatically checks for component updates every day at 2 AM UTC
- **📋 Smart PRs**: Creates pull requests only when updates are available
- **🛡️ Safe Updates**: Includes backups, change summaries, and review guidelines
- **🔧 Manual Control**: Run updates manually when needed

```bash
pnpm run shadcn:check    # Check for available updates
pnpm run shadcn:update   # Update components manually
pnpm run shadcn:force    # Force update all components
```

## ⚡ Automated Subscription Sync

This template includes a robust subscription synchronization system powered by Vercel Cron Jobs:

- **🕐 Scheduled Sync**: Automatically syncs subscription data from Polar every 6 hours
- **🔒 Secure Endpoint**: Protected by `CRON_SECRET` token authentication
- **🛡️ Webhook Backup**: Ensures data consistency even if webhooks are missed
- **📊 Monitoring**: Built-in health checks and comprehensive logging

The sync system runs automatically after deployment, requiring no manual intervention. Monitor sync activities through your Vercel Dashboard under the Functions tab.

## 📧 Email Templates with React Email

This template uses **React Email** for building beautiful, responsive email templates with React components and TypeScript.

### Email Development Workflow

```bash
pnpm run email:dev     # Start React Email preview server (port 3001)
pnpm run dev:email     # Run both Next.js and React Email preview
pnpm run email:export  # Export email templates to static HTML
```

### Creating Email Templates

1. **Create your template** in the `emails/` directory:

```tsx
// emails/my-template.tsx
import { BaseLayout } from './base-layout';
import { Section, Text, Button } from '@react-email/components';

export function MyEmailTemplate({ name }: { name: string }) {
  return (
    <BaseLayout preview="Welcome to our service!">
      <Section>
        <Text>Hello {name}!</Text>
        <Button href="https://example.com">Get Started</Button>
      </Section>
    </BaseLayout>
  );
}
```

2. **Send the email** using the updated email service:

```tsx
import { sendEmail } from '@/lib/email';
import { MyEmailTemplate } from '@/emails/my-template';

await sendEmail({
  to: 'user@example.com',
  subject: 'Welcome!',
  react: <MyEmailTemplate name="John" />,
});
```

### Email Preview & Testing

- **Preview**: Visit [http://localhost:3001](http://localhost:3001) when running `pnpm run email:dev`
- **Live Reload**: Template changes are reflected instantly in the preview
- **Responsive**: Test email rendering across different screen sizes
- **Plain Text**: Automatically generates plain text versions

## 📦 Available Scripts

```bash
pnpm run dev           # Start development server
pnpm run dev:email     # Start Next.js + React Email preview
pnpm run build         # Build for production
pnpm run start         # Start production server
pnpm run lint          # Run ESLint
pnpm run format        # Format code with Prettier
pnpm run email:dev     # Start React Email preview server
pnpm run email:export  # Export email templates to HTML
pnpm run db:generate   # Generate database migrations
pnpm run db:migrate    # Run database migrations
pnpm run db:push       # Push schema changes
pnpm run db:studio     # Open Drizzle Studio
pnpm run db:seed       # Seed database
```

## 🚀 Deployment & Production

For complete deployment instructions, production configuration, and DevOps guidance, see the [CLI Setup Guide](./cli/README.md) which covers:

- 🤖 **Interactive Vercel deployment** with automated environment variable setup
- 🏦 **Production Polar billing** configuration
- 🔐 **Production Clerk authentication** setup
- ☁️ **Custom domain configuration**
- 🔒 **Security best practices**
- 📊 **Monitoring and maintenance**

The CLI guide provides step-by-step instructions for both development and production environments.

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the LICENSE file for details.
